Metroid Fusion is an action-adventure video game developed by Nintendo R&D1 and released for the Nintendo Game Boy Advance portable video game system. It is the fourth main installment released in the Metroid series, and it is the first Metroid game to appear on this console. It is the direct sequel to the critically acclaimed Super NES game Super Metroid and currently set chronologically eighth and last in the series's fictional universe. Metroid Fusion represented somewhat of a departure for the series, as it scrapped the semi-nonlinear adventure formula from earlier Metroid games and introduced a non-playable computer character to direct the player where to go and what to do there (thus making it significantly harder to sequence break and explore freely in the game).
Story
The player plays as the main protagonist, Samus Aran, a galactic bounty hunter who must explore artificially maintained habitats on board a space station run by Biologic Space Laboratories or BSL, which, along with Samus, has been infected with a parasitoid species known as the X Parasites, or simply the X. She must re-gather her special abilities and her weapons she has lost (however she still has the power grip and long beam upgrades), as well as some new ones, to neutralize the threat to the station. Along the way she encounters various obstacles and enemies, including a highly dangerous X Parasite which acts as the main antagonist, the SA-X, which is mimicking Samus and her Power Suit.Unlike other games in the series, Samus is in constant contact with her Galactic Federation "employers" by way of an intelligent computer, her commanding officer. This computer, which she names "Adam" in honor of her former CO, gives Samus a series of objectives throughout the game, and is capable of locking and unlocking doors and hatches to ensure she achieves her objectives before she can progress. These include acquiring powerups, defeating enemies, and reaching certain areas. However, these objectives usually require a solution that is not immediately obvious, giving the player room to explore and experiment with the game's environment as in previous titles.The environments in Fusion also change throughout the game in much more radical ways than in other games in the series. For example, some corridors become permanently blocked by explosions, parts of the research station being jettisoned into space, and new creatures that appear in previously explored areas. Some gameplay elements differ significantly as well, including disabling single-wall jumps, mid-air bomb jumping and other methods commonly used to perform sequence breaking.Samus spends most of the game being stalked by the SA-X, which appears unexpectedly in various locations. Confronting the SA-X in battle at these times is suicidal, as it possesses Samus's most powerful abilities such as Super Missiles, Screw Attack, Power Bombs, and Ice Beam.Most of the creatures encountered in the game are actually X parasites mimicking other lifeforms; many being familiar foes from prior entries in the Metroid series. Creatures are usually reduced to floating X cells when they are destroyed. Samus can absorb these to replenish her lost energy and missiles. However, if Samus does not absorb them, they can re-form into new enemies or disappear entirely. Some monsters can also absorb additional X parasites, evolving into newer, more powerful forms.The Metroid Fusion instruction manual states that Metroids were actually created by the Chozo to prevent the spread of the X parasite. The word "Metroid" means "Ultimate Warrior" in the Chozo language. The Federation is revealed to be creating duplicate Metroids, which the SA-X destroys.Adam was Samus Aran's commanding officer during one of her assignments with the Galactic Federation. Little is known about this mission or about Adam himself, but Samus seems to have great respect for him. At some time during this mission, Adam died in order to save Samus. She stated in Fusion that Adam called her "Lady" on her missions and if any one else had said it, it would have sounded sarcastic, whereas from him, it was respectful.Unbeknownst to the bounty hunter, Adam's mind was uploaded into a computer following his death, but most likely does not remember anything of Adam. At the beginning of the game Metroid Fusion, Samus is given a computer CO. She is not aware that the computer's artificial intelligence was in fact Adam Malkovich's digitized mind. Because of the similarities she noticed between the computer and her former CO, she started privately referring to the computer as "Adam." Later, when Samus questions her official orders and accidentally addresses the computer as "Adam", her old CO reveals himself and helps Samus devise a plan to destroy the X-infected research station by setting it on a collision course with SR-388, thereby extinguishing the threat posed to the universe by the X Parasites. However, after defeating the SA-X and retrieving her full power, Samus is attacked by a final surviving Omega Metroid, which she manages to defeat.Samus' fate after these events is unknown, as well as how the Galactic Federation now perceives her - still as an asset, or an unpredictable new threat.
to the conditions of recovery