The graphics are very similar to those found in Super Metroid for the Super NES and are rendered in 2D. The game is a side-scroller, all of the action is displayed from a side-on angle.
Special features
Owners of both Metroid Prime and Metroid Fusion can unlock new features in Metroid Prime using the Nintendo GameCube-Game Boy Advance cable. If the player completes Metroid Prime, they can unlock Samus's Fusion Suit for use in Prime; if they complete Metroid Fusion, they can, depending on the game version, unlock an emulated version of either the original FDS version or the NES port of Metroid. There is also a bonus to be had by linking to Metroid: Zero Mission - the entire Fusion gallery of pictures is unlocked in Zero Mission, including the extra ending images from the Japanese version of Fusion which chronicle Samus's early years, and some additional concept art.
Gameplay
While exploring the subterranean caverns of SR388 with a group of human scientists, Samus stumbles upon the X and has to be stripped of her infected power suit and consequently, her special abilities. She must retrieve them through either downloading the data from terminals scattered throughout the station, or through absorbing certain powerful X parasites using her newly acquired Fusion Suit. There is thus an in-game reason for Samus starting the game without the equipment she found during Super Metroid, which is further developed through the introduction of the SA-X.Samus gathers many of the powerups available to her in previous games, and also gains the entirely new Ice Missiles and Diffusion Missiles.Because of the Metroid DNA used to combat the X parasite, Samus now has the Metroids' weakness to cold. Because of this, she can be frozen by the SA-X's Ice Beam until she gets the Varia Suit. Also, she cannot use her old Ice Beam, and must use Ice Missiles instead, which have essentially the same effect as the beam. These can be further upgraded to Diffusion Missiles, which have the same function but a have an extremely large blast radius which encompasses the whole screen. The Diffusion Missiles must be charged up before firing to obtain the full effect.The Jump Ball and High Jump abilities are now combined into one item. Instead of her regular orange Power Suit of previous missions, it is now the organic-looking yellow and blue Fusion Suit. Each type of missile will simply replace the last rather than being a separate kind of weapon, and regardless of what kind of missile is being fired - normal, super, ice or diffusion - it will only ever use up 1 missile. Power Bombs now reveal what kind of weaknesses certain blocks have, their larger blast radius making up for the absence of Super Metroid's X-Ray Scope.Samus does eventually recover her Ice Beam ability by absorbing the SA-X, but it is only in effect during the final boss encounter. Absorbing SA-X also resulted in Samus recovering her trademark gold and orange colors, but the usual recovery animation is not shown due 