Like all original Game Boy games, the original monochrome Metroid II cartridge is also compatible with the Super Game Boy accessory for the Super NES (although it is not an enhanced title), allowing the player to manually remap the color scheme to a maximum of four different colors. Additionally, the Game Boy Color (and subsequent compatible systems) automatically colorizes the game, but not true full color, as it is still limited to the same colorization techniques of the GBC and GBA.
The lack of color in Metroid II had some long-term effects on Samus' appearance. According to the GameTrailers five-part Metroid Retrospective, the Varia Suit gained the extra armor plating and bulky, round shoulderpads that have become its most recognizable traits. The change was necessary in order to differentiate it from Samus's normal Power Suit.In addition, rather than Samus' arm cannon and visor changing color to distinguish between "Beam Mode" and "Missile Mode," the end of the arm cannon tip moved outward and back to show that the "missile hatch" was open. These graphical changes have been used in all Metroid games since Metroid II rather than the color changes from Metroid.
Gameplay
The layout of the game is similar to other 2D Metroid installments. However, Metroid II is more straightforward in the sense that advancement through the levels is not strictly controlled by item acquisition as in the other games, but by killing a fixed number of Metroids in the area. Once they are destroyed, an earthquake occurs and SR-388's lava levels decrease, allowing Samus to travel deeper through its maze-like tunnels. Like the game's predecessor, Metroid II contains no in-game map. One aspect unique to the game is the Metroid detector, which displays the number of Metroids left on the planet. Metroid II is also the first in the series to utilize save modules, located in various points around the planet. In Metroid, saving was accomplished by dying: in Japanese Famicom Disk System version, the player is given the option to continue or save, and in the international NES version, the player is given a password. This was the only Metroid game to not have a timed escape sequence at the end of the game until the release of Metroid Prime.
After the credits are displayed at the end of the game, the total time the player took to complete the game will be displayed. During the credits, Samus is shown running on the screen. Depending on the completion time, after the credits Samus will either continue running, jump and then pose in her suit, or jump and then pose without her suit.
The game significantly expands Samus' arsenal, both in functionality and in power. The game features two new weapons: the tri-splitting Spazer Laser Beam (identified in-game as the "Spazer" and later changed to simply "Spazer Beam" in Super Metroid), and the powerful Plasma Beam that passes through enemies. As in the original game, only one beam can be equipped at a time, but Samus can switch between them by going back to where they are originally found.
Metroid II features a bevy of new suit enhancements as well. Making its debut in this game, the Space Jump allows Samus to spin-jump repeatedly in the air and can be used to access otherwise unreachable areas. When this is combined with the Screw Attack, Samus can shred almost any enemy by flying into it.
When it comes to the Morph Ball, the game introduces a number of new features to the series as well. This game is the first in the series to feature the Spider Ball and the Spring Ball, which have become Metroid series staples. The Spring Ball gives Samus the ability to jump while in the Morph Ball form. Before its introduction, the only way to jump while in Morph Ball form was with bombs. The Spider Ball in this game allows Samus to climb any wall or ceiling, giving her immense freedom to explore. To date, Metroid II remains the only Metroid game in the series to feature the fully functional version of the Spider Ball, although it does appear (in a far more limited capacity) in all three Metroid Prime games.


