Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a video game for the Wii developed by Retro Studios and published by Nintendo. It is the tenth game in the Metroid series and is the third and final of the main installments in the Metroid Prime trilogy, excluding the two spin-off titles.The game takes place six months after the events of Metroid Prime 2: Echoes and follows bounty hunter Samus Aran as she assists the Galactic Federation in their fight against the Space Pirates, despite being slowly corrupted by the mutagenic material, Phazon. The game introduces a new control system based on the Wii Remote and Nunchuk.
Story
Corruption takes place precisely six months after the events Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, with the player again taking the role of Samus Aran. The story begins with a meeting between Samus and the Galactic Federation, in which she meets three other bounty hunters: Rundas, Gandrayda, and Ghor. The hunters help fend off a Space Pirate attack on the fleet, then are quickly dispatched to the nearby planet Norion and ordered to activate its laser defense system. During the mission, an asteroid-size "Leviathan Seed" is sighted heading to the planet. The Hunters, having defeated Meta Ridley and the Space Pirates and restored power to the defense system, rush to the control room, but are attacked by Dark Samus just before they can activate the system. With the other hunters unconscious, a severely wounded Samus manages to activate the laser just in time to destroy the Leviathan Seed.
Samus wakes up a month later and learns that she and her fellow Hunters were changed by Phazon from Dark Samus' attack. The Federation scientists discover that their bodies now able self-produce Phazon and have installed a Phazon Enhancement Device (P.E.D.) that the GF previously developed that allows them to control their internal Phazon on a safe level and to enter Hypermode (Samus later discovers that the P.E.D. suit is not in fact safe, but is necessary for the defeat of Dark Samus). Samus further learns that the other three Hunters had left two weeks before for missions to three other planets where Seeds have been observed, but the Federation lost contact with them seven days earlier. Samus is ordered to destroy each Leviathan Seed and seek the whereabouts of the other Hunters.
Samus travels between the planets of Bryyo, a planet covered in fire, ice, and ruins of an ancient civilization, Elysia, a planet with a thick atmosphere containing SkyTown, an airborne city with a steampunk feel, and the Pirate Homeworld, a very polluted, mechanical, murky planet, to find upgrades to further enhance her abilities and destroy the seeds. However, she learns that the Phazon corruption initially thought to be benign can cause her body to overload with Phazon energy which she must dispel to prevent further corruption, lest she become another Dark Samus. She learns that each of her fellow Hunters fell to the Phazon corruption and to protect herself she battles each one in turn, killing them. As each Hunter falls, Dark Samus appears in a strange 'spectral' form to drain the Phazon energy from their bodies, with Samus powerless to stop her. After much work, Samus is able to destroy the source of Phazon in both Seeds on Bryyo and Elysia. She also helps the Federation lead an all-out attack on the Pirate Homeworld, and she once again faces off with a newly revived Ridley known as Omega Ridley and once again defeats him, allowing her to destroy the Pirate planet's Seed as well.
The Aurora Units (organic supercomputers used by the Federation) then discover the location of planet Phaaze, the source of all Phazon. It is impossible to get there by normal travel; the only way to get there is by a wormhole, which can only be created with the Leviathan. Unfortunately, Samus needs a special pirate code to operate it, which is only obtainable by exploring the G.F.S. Valhalla. Traveling with the Federation via wormhole, Samus arrives and descends to the planet. Upon leaving her ship, Samus begins absorbing dangerous amounts of Phazon energy from the planet's atmosphere. However, she manages to prevent this by venting all her available energy tanks and locking herself in permanent Hypermode. After venturing to the planet's inner sanctum, she encounters Dark Samus, who fuses with a stolen Aurora Unit from the G.F.S. Valhalla that is linked with Phaaze's core. Samus is able to defeat Dark Samus, which destroys the Phazon in her body and causes the planet to self-destruct. The Federation fleet escapes via another wormhole, but loses contact with Samus in the process. Eventually, though, her ship appears, and she reports that her mission is complete, then flies off into space. Should the player collect every single pickup upon completion of the game, a special extended ending after the credits shows an unknown ship following Samus' gunship as it flies off from Elysia.