Metroid Prime 2: Echoes is a first-person action/adventure video game taking place within the Metroid series. It is a direct sequel to Metroid Prime, although chronologically, it occurs after Metroid Prime Hunters. It was developed by Retro Studios and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo GameCube video game console. It was released on November 15, 2004 in North America and was also the first Metroid game to have a multiplayer feature.
Story
The game takes place on the planet Aether, where a technologically advanced race of moth-like creatures, the Luminoth, have been harbouring and protecting the natural energy of the planet, called the Light of Aether. A Leviathan struck the planet, dividing the planet and its energy into two dimensions; light and dark. This new dark world is home to the Ing, a race of dark, semi-liquid creatures that can possess the bodies of the living, the dead, and the artificially intelligent. They can also have bodies of their own. The Ing and Luminoth are locked in a bitter struggle for survival, as Aether's planetary energy cannot support both worlds. The Ing so far have been the victors, taking the energy from three of Aether's four temples, leaving only the main energy controller to harbor any of the Light of Aether. Should the Ing steal this last piece of energy, Light Aether will be destroyed.
On top of this, the Space Pirates had discovered the planet by luck, hoping to reap huge amounts of Phazon on the planet and to compensate for the loss on Tallon IV (Metroid Prime). A Galactic Federation Marine Corps ship intercepted a Space Pirate ship one week prior to start of the game, which crash landed on Aether. The Marines landed to finish the Pirates off. Contact with the Marines was lost soon after. Samus Aran, who is sent in to investigate, enters a hive where most of the marines were killed. Soon inside, Samus meets a mysterious entity known as Dark Samus, who wanders around tirelessly searching for Phazon to absorb to survive as well as engaging Samus at different points in the game. Samus engages an Ing-possessed Alpha Splinter that drops a mysterious module when killed. She then meets U-Mos, the current Luminoth Sentinel of Aether. He explains that Samus acquired an Energy Transfer Module that allows its holder to transfer and return the Light of Aether to each of its respective temples as well as preventing Ing possession, and learns of the situation of the war between the Luminoth and the Ing, and that his people went into a cryogenic sleep, leaving only him to try to find hope. By returning the energy, Samus can destroy the Dark world and return peace to the Luminoth.
Samus travels to the Agon Wastes, a desert wasteland, Torvus Bog, a swamp that has many volatile creatures, and Sanctuary Fortress, which is inhabited by artificial intelligence turned to Ing purposes. Samus gathers the energies stored here, and is bidden to go to the Sky Temple after finding 9 keys, where the Emperor Ing is guarding the last part of the Light of Aether left on Dark Aether. Samus travels here, defeats the Emperor Ing, and collects the last of the Light of Aether. Upon doing this, Dark Aether begins to collapse, and as Samus tries to escape, meets Dark Samus at the gateway to the Sky Temple. Dark Samus has absorbed massive amounts of Phazon, and her suit has become transparent. Samus defeats Dark Samus, and narrowly escapes the pursuing Ing. On Aether, all the portals have self-destructed now that Dark Aether no longer exists. Samus finds that U-Mos has reawakened the Luminoth, and she gives them back their technology before leaving Aether.
