Metroid Prime is the first 3D game in the Metroid series, and is classified by Nintendo as a first-person adventure rather than a first-person shooter, due to the large exploration component of the game. 
Like previous games in the series, Metroid Prime has a science fiction setting, in which players control the bounty hunter Samus Aran. The story follows Samus as she battles the Space Pirates and their biological experiments on the planet Tallon IV.
The biggest difference with Metroid Prime was the jump to 3d. Not only did it work, but it worked better than anyone had ever expected it to. The gameplay remained true to the original Metroid games while bringing it into the 3d realm. With the 3d realm came a wave of flashy new graphics. Metroid Prime is considered one of, if not the very best looking game for the Nintendo Gamecube. It had lush settings, including lava pits, greenery, ruins,ice worlds, and a whole array of creepy, and dangerous enemies all rendered in polygnal beauty.Along with the new visuals the game also got some new ways of handling things.
The heads up display brought forth new ways of looking at the worlds of Metroid. You were actually able to look through a visor that Samus Aran looked through.Nintendo took advantage of this, they developed the scan system. This allowed a new way of telling the story, by scanning items you could gather information on that particular item, some items meaningful and some less trivial. This also unlocked new ideas for puzzles that needed to be completed to advance the story. 
Gameplay
As in previous Metroid games, Prime takes place in a large, open-ended world with different regions connected by elevators. Each region has an entire set of rooms separated by doors that can be opened with a shot from the correct beam. The protagonist, Samus, must travel through the world searching for power-ups that enable the players to reach previously inaccessible areas — such as the Varia Suit, which protects against damage caused by heat — and twelve Chozo Artifacts that will open the path to the Phazon meteor impact crater. The gameplay revolves around solving puzzles to uncover secrets, platform jumping, and shooting foes, with the addition of a "lock-on" mechanism that allows circlestrafing while keeping focus on the enemy. The game is the first in the series to use a first-person view as opposed to side-scrolling, except in Morph Ball mode, when Samus's suit transforms into an armored ball and the game uses a third-person camera.
The head-up display simulates the inside of Samus's helmet, featuring a radar, a map, ammunition and health meters, and a health bar for bosses. The display can be altered by exchanging visors, including one using thermal imaging, another with x-ray vision, and one with a scanner that searches for enemy weaknesses and interfaces with certain mechanisms such as force fields and elevators, allowing the player to operate them.[9] Prime also introduces a hint system that provides the player with a general idea of where to go.