Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, like the first Metroid Prime, is a 3-D game in a first-person style. This was a large departure from the series, which had been previously 2-D sidescrollers. However, Metroid Prime was largely regarded as being true to the basic tenets of the series, focusing on exploration and platforming rather than combat. Metroid Prime 2: Echoes uses this gameplay style as well, but features several changes, the most dramatic of which being the existence of two parallel dimensions, Light and Dark Aether. Changes in one dimension often reflect changes in the other. While the maps themselves have the same basic layout, the rooms are often completely different, with new enemies and designs. Progress through the game requires that both dimensions be thoroughly explored, using all the equipment that Samus regains or finds on her travels.
Weapons
The standard Power Beam is the default weapon; though weak, it has unlimited firing capacity and is semi-automatic, giving it the fastest firing rate of any beam. Its Charge Combo is the Super Missile, as in the original Metroid Prime.
Adding to the gameplay mechanic of opposites are the Light and Dark Beams, which are more effective against enemies of the opposite world and have other effects, but have limited ammunition. These beams are also used to open various portals in both of the worlds and activate crystals and beacons, therefore making the conservation of their ammo all the more pressing. Ways of getting additional ammo for the dark and light beam include defeating enemies with one beam to receive ammo for the other beam, destroying crates with the same method with enemies and ammunition stations. The Light Beam is similar to the Plasma Beam from Metroid Prime in that it has short range and can set enemies on fire, though with the Wave Beam's rate of fire. The Dark Beam on the other hand is much like the Ice Beam: it can freeze enemies, allowing for Missile shots that will shatter the enemy, but has the Plasma Beam's rate of fire and Ice Beam's muzzle velocity. The Charge Combos for the beams are the Sun Burst, which creates a bright light which slowly moves forward, incinerating foes, and DarkBurst, which sucks enemies into its small, quickly dissolving black hole, but is as slow as the SunBurst.
The fourth beam, the Annihilator Beam, is a powerful mixture of both energy types, and it consumes both dark and light ammunition. It has the ability to automatically home in on any enemy target, even without locking on: this is somewhat derived from the Wave Beam's homing capabilities in Metroid Prime. (Charged shots, however, cannot home in.) It is regarded as a sonic weapon and can, when used in conjunction with sound-detecting gear, interact with sonic-based equipment. The Annihilator Beam has the Power Beam's rate of fire. Its Charge Combo is known as the Sonic Boom, which instantaneously fires on a wide area, shredding enemies apart.
While the Dark, Light, and Annihilator beams use the ammo system, they can be charged if the player runs out of ammo to fire a weaker shot. This was likely implemented so that a player who has run out of ammo can still open color coded doors, energize light crystals and beacons, activate portals, and recover ammo.
The standard Missiles return to this game, and can be upgraded with a new item, the Seeker Missiles, to lock on up to five objects to fire multiple Missiles at the same time, or can be used to lock on to a single enemy up to five times. The Seeker Launcher is required for certain puzzles in some areas of the game.
Morph Ball
The Morph Ball function of Samus' Power Suit, which transforms the suit into a compact, mobile sphere, returns in Metroid Prime 2: Echoes with very little changes from Metroid Prime. Morph Ball bombs destroy certain objects and propels the morph ball into the air. The Boost Ball provides a temporary increase in speed, and is useful for ascending half-pipes and rotating certain devices. The Spider Ball gives the ball a magnetic charge, allowing it to attach to magnetic rails in the environment. Furthermore, the Bomb and Boost features are usable on the rails, allowing for some extremely intricate platforming puzzles. Finally, the appropriately named Power Bombs destroy even more types of objects and enemies in a very wide radius, though they do not propel the Morph Ball as would a normal bomb.
Visors
Since the game was shown from Samus' perspective, a new feature of Metroid Prime (though inspired by a feature of Super Metroid) was the inclusion of different visors, which showed the world in different ways. The most important these is the Combat Visor. It shows the radar, a small map, the amount of missile and beam ammo, and a threat assessment meter. Next, is the Scan Visor, which could be used on practically every item of interest in the environment, and stored many different text entries, like creature morphologies and progress reports of Samus's enemies. This returns in the new game, and has been streamlined by highlighting all scanable objects with different colors to indicate scanning status. The other two unique visors are new to this game: the Dark Visor, which reveals and highlights inter dimensional objects or cloaked enemies, and the Echo Visor, which creates a visual representation of sound. Both of these are used in inventive puzzles and are often key in defeating particular enemies and boss monsters.
Platforming
A hallmark of the Metroid series has been the focus on platforming, with upgrades to extend the height and number of jumps possible. In this vein, Metroid Prime featured a double jump, called the Space Jump (though in all other games, the space jump was an infinite somersault power, this would obviously not transfer well to a first-person perspective). Echoes includes this power, but now features a third-person series of horizontal spinning jumps, called the Screw Attack, as well. (previously, the Screw Attack in the 2-D Metroid games simply made somersaults damaging to enemies, while the Space Jump was the series of somersaults.) This new power dramatically extends the distance ability of Samus' jumps, and even damages enemies, should they get in the way. However, it is primarily an exploratory tool that can be used in conjunction with special walls to scale new heights. Finally, the Grapple Beam returns, allowing the player to swing from special points in the environment. One new aspect of this, while not crucial, is that shooting is possible while swinging.
Multiplayer
The multiplayer mode allows for up to four person combat through a split screen, but no LAN or online support. It has two modes: the rather self-explanatory Deathmatch, and Bounty mode, which focuses on collecting coins that injured players drop. In contrast to most first-person multiplayer games, Echoes features the same control scheme as the singleplayer mode, including the morph ball and lock-on systems. This move, as well as the inclusion of multiplayer in the first place, has provoked some controversy from gamers, but Retro Studios maintains that this was to differentiate the game from the admittedly large number of multiplayer FPSs on the market. To make the system work better in multiplayer, use of the Boost Ball will throw off another player's lock, allowing an escape, as does using the Space Jump. Play is further livened up by different environments featuring grapple points, magnetic rails for the Spider Ball, Morph Ball cannons and water pits. All players start out with the Power Beam, Charge Beam, Morph Ball, Boost Ball, Spider Ball, Space Jump and Grapple Beam, and can pick up many of the single-player game's power-ups through crates or Randomizers scattered around. During the single player mode, various events can unlock additional multiplayer content, including extra soundtracks and two unlockable battle arenas. There are six arenas in total.
Music
The music for Metroid Prime 2: Echoes was composed by Kenji Yamamoto. The music for each area on Aether fit the theme of their environment. The themes used for areas on Dark Aether are dark variations of the themes used for areas on Aether. The "Hunters" Multiplayer theme is a remix of Super Metroid's "Upper Brinstar" theme, while the theme for subterranean Torvus is a remix of the "Lower Brinstar" theme from Super Metroid. Finally, the escape theme is a remix of the original Metroid's "Escape" theme.