Story
The game begins as Samus receives a distress signal from the Space Pirate Frigate Orpheon, whose crew has been slaughtered by the Pirates' own genetically modified experimental subjects. Upon arriving at the ship's core, she battles with the Parasite Queen, a giant mutated version of the tiny parasite enemies occasionally seen in the ship. After the battle, the Parasite Queen falls into the frigate's reactor, causing it to explode. While Samus is making her escape, an electrical surge destroys all of her Power Suit's upgrades. After watching Ridley fly towards Tallon IV, Samus gives chase in her gunship.
Samus initially lands on the Tallon Overworld, a rainforest-like area. She discovers the Chozo Ruins, the remains of the Chozo civilization on Tallon IV that was destroyed with the crash of the Phazon meteor. After defeating that area's boss, a giant, mantis-like plant called Flaaghra, she obtains the Varia Suit upgrade and is able to enter Magmoor Caverns, a series of magma-filled underground tunnels that connects all of the game's other areas together. The Space Pirates use the caverns as a source of geothermal power, and Magmoor is the only area in the game without a boss or mini-boss to fight. Samus then journeys to the Phendrana Drifts, a cold, mountainous location divided into an ancient Chozo ruin, Space Pirate research labs that feature the first Metroids in the game, and ice caves and valleys that are home to electrical and ice-based creatures. Finally, Samus infiltrates the Phazon Mines, a mining and research complex, and the center of the Space Pirates' Tallon IV operations, where she obtains the Phazon Suit and the last of the Chozo Artifacts. Those allow her to enter the Impact Crater, where the Chozo have sealed off a Phazon-mutated beast called Metroid Prime.
During the final cutscene, a dying Metroid Prime steals Samus's Phazon Suit, reverting her armor to the Gravity Suit, and Samus escapes the collapsing Impact Crater and leaves Tallon IV in her ship. In a post-credits scene, Metroid Prime uses the Phazon Suit to recreate its body.
Sources such as Gradiente, Brazil's former distributor of Nintendo, and the Nintendo Power comics adaptation of Metroid Prime,[13] set the games as occurring after Super Metroid. The Brazilian publicity even states that the Phazon meteor is a piece of Zebes,[14] destroyed after Super Metroid.
