The graphics and sound form a perfect mix, while not straying too far from the original formula, they mastered the 2d platformerand with its 24-megabit cartridge size, it was the largest game available for the console at the time of its release.Super Metroid founded many of the aspects of game-play which would be the basis in other games in the Metroid series. It takes place in a large, open-ended world with different areas that are connected via doors and elevators. Samus traverses the planet through its complex cavities to hunt the Space Pirates. In order to progress in the game, Samus must defeat four main bosses: Kraid, the giant lizard whose base composes a large part of Brinstar; Phantoon, a spectral entity that controls the desolate Wrecked Ship; Draygon, a large crustacean who occupies part of Maridia; and Ridley, who rules Norfair.
Hailed as one of the best 2D adventures ever, Nintendo's sci-fi epic still provides one of the most thought out and intriguing gameplay experiences around. Ranging from extensive platform challenges to gigantic boss battles to a comprehensive power-up system, Super Metroid has attained a divine place in the hearts of longtime gamers. Certainly, it stands as something players and developers can idolize for years to come.
Super Metroid remains one of the most well made adventures ever produced. Every detail, from the echoing ice shafts to the statue that shifts color to illustrate which of the game's four bosses have been defeated, is indicative of an almost manic dedication among the developers at Nintendo.
Infleunce
Super Metroid served as a formula for subsequent 2-D games in the Metroid series, as it refined and provided a definitive version of concepts introduced in the first two Metroid games.
The bidimensional Castlevania games beginning with Castlevania: Symphony of the Night on the PlayStation/Sega Saturn and continuing on the Game Boy Advance and DS borrow elements from Super Metroid, such as the "retraversal" style of gameplay involving items that grant new abilities to access new areas, as well as the style of map. This has led to terms "Castleroid" and "Metroidvania", used when describing similar action-adventure games.
The game has also had several of its music tracks reused for the Metroid Prime series. A remixed version of the Ridley Norfair music was used for the Magmoor Caverns on the first Metroid Prime, while a remix of the "Red Brinstar" music is played during an underwater section of Torvus Bog in Metroid Prime 2: Echoes. The prologue theme is used during the video log of a Galactic Federation marine in Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, and also for crucial story-line briefings with the Galactic Federation in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. Also in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, the Space Pirate Homeworld theme is a remixed version of the first encounter with the Space Pirates.