Super Metroid is an adventure video game developed and published by Nintendo for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System video game console. Super Metroid was the third released game in the Metroid series of video games. 
At the time of its release, Super Metroid was universally praised. To this day, it remains one of the most popular and critically lauded games not only for the Super NES, but in all of gaming history. It has sold 1.4 million units, becoming a Player's Choice. It frequently appears in "best games of all time" lists; Electronic Gaming Monthly has named Super Metroid the best game of all time,it came in 4th place on the reader's choice edition of IGN's 100 greatest video games of all time, and IGN ranked it the third best game of all time in its 2003 "top 100" list, and fourth best game of all time in its most recent 2006 list.
Super Metroid was also made available on the Wii's Virtual Console service on August 20, 2007 in North America, as part of the "Month of Metroid" Wii Shop Channel event. Super Metroid has been in the Top 20 Most Popular Downloads on the American Virtual Console since its debut and was the Number 1 download from August 21 to September 9, 2007, displaced by Super Mario Bros. It was made available on the Japanese Virtual Console on 20 September 2007.
Story
After extinguishing the Metroids on their home planet of SR-388 in Metroid II: Return of Samus, bounty hunter Samus Aran brings the last surviving Metroid larva to the Ceres Space Colony. There, scientists conduct research on the larva and reach the conclusion that the powers of Metroids could be harnessed for the benefit of mankind. Confident that things are in order, Samus leaves Ceres in search of a new bounty to hunt. However, shortly after leaving, Samus picks up a distress call from Ceres and returns to investigate. As Samus explores the space colony, she is attacked by the dragon-like Ridley. Samus and Ridley engage in battle, but Ridley soon flies off with the larva in his talons. At the same time, a countdown sets off for the self-destruction of the space colony and Samus has 60 seconds to return to her gunship.
Samus follows Ridley to planet Zebes, a Space Pirate base. The base was mostly destroyed in the first Metroid game, but has now been rebuilt. It should be noted that a whole section of Crateria, the first section of Zebes, looks like Tourian from the first game (dubbed Old Tourian), with Mother Brain's old control chamber. She sets out to locate the Metroid larva and prevent the Pirates from gaining use of its powers. After defeating the four main bosses, Samus battles her way through Tourian, encountering newly bred Metroids. After passing through several corridors filled with crumbling enemies, she encounters a Metroid of immense size. Before she can escape, the giant drains most of her energy. However, it seems to recognize Samus just in time; it appears that this huge Metroid is the larva taken from SR388. According to the Nintendo Power Player's Guide, the huge Metroid is aptly named "Super Metroid". As in the beginning of the game, "The Metroid followed [Samus] like [she] was its mother."
Samus fighting Mother Brain.
After the Metroid departs, Samus recovers her energy and confronts Mother Brain. After Samus shatters the bioform's stasis tank and inflicts enough damage, Mother Brain reveals herself to be attached to a giant bipedal form and the battle begins again. During the battle, Mother Brain uses a massive burst of energy from her eye, nearly destroying Samus. Samus finds herself unable to move while Mother Brain charges up to finish her. Before the final blow can be inflicted, however, the Super Metroid suddenly attacks Mother Brain, draining her energy until she appears dead. The Metroid then attaches itself to Samus and begins feeding Mother Brain's energy to her. However, Mother Brain soon recovers and begins firing upon the hatchling, weakening it until it lifts off of Samus. A final shot destroys the hatchling, leaving its remains to fall upon Samus.
Pulsating with light, Samus now finds that she possesses the Hyper Beam, an incredibly powerful weapon that has replaced her other beams. With it, she easily destroys Mother Brain, who falls to the floor and turns to dust. This triggers a self-destruct sequence, giving Samus a mere three minutes to escape through the emergency evacuation shaft of the original base. Along the way, Samus rescues several Etecoons and the mother Dachora, then she makes it to her gunship just in time and takes off, watching the planet explode in a flash of light.


